---
Title: "Docker"
Published: 2023-07-03
author: Sumit Patel
description: "Docker is an open-source containerization platform. It enables developers to package applications into containers—standardized executable components c"
tags: ["docker"]
---

Docker is an open-source containerization platform. It enables developers to package applications into containers—standardized executable components combining application source code with the operating system (OS) libraries and dependencies required to run that code in any environment. Containers simplify the delivery of distributed applications and have become increasingly popular as organizations shift to cloud-native development and hybrid multi-cloud environments. [--more--]

[image httpss://patel-sumit.web.app/docker-logo.png DockerLogo center]

Containers are made possible by process isolation and virtualization capabilities built into the Linux kernel. Docker provides wide range of prebuilt containers which can be used in our custom image to make work easy.
Installation

~ Arch
```bash
yay -S docker-git
```
~ Debian
```
sudo apt install docker.io
```
OR

visit [this](https://download.docker.com/linux/debian/dists/) page, choose your version, browse to pool/stable/ choose your architecture

~ Download .deb file
```
sudo dpkg -i path/to/installed-file.deb
```

> Error fixing

After Installation if you face some problem like below:
```
 tcp://localhost:2375/usr/lib/systemd/system/docker.socket.
 Is the docker daemon running?
```

#### Then here is the solution :

1. Add your self to the docker group
```
usermod -aG docker $USER
```
2. Fix permissions on docker socker and command.
```
sudo chgrp docker /usr/bin/docker
sudo chgrp docker /var/run/docker.sock
```
Output :
```
 ~$ ll $(which docker)
    -rwxr-xr-x 1 root docker 18991768 08.07.2017 22:57 /usr/bin/docker*

 ~$ ll /var/run/docker.sock
    srw-rw---- 1 root docker 0 23.07.2017 10:21 /var/run/docker.sock
```
3. Add variables to config environment for docker command
```
export DOCKER_HOST=unix:///var/run/docker.sock
```
4. Rest Docker
```
sudo systemctl restart docker
```
This should fix the error.

### Run

Lets run the hello-world:
```
 sudo docker run hello-world
```
1. Let’s pull our first OS
```
docker pull centos
```
> You can pull any other os or any available software also from docker hub

2. run it
```
docker run -d -t --name <name> centos
```
3. check our container is running or not
```
docker ps
```
4. Get into the container
```
docker exec -it <name> <shell>
```
Now you will be on your centos.
### Thanks for reading.





© Dark-Kernel 2023
